# simple-python-list-and-dictionary

There's a holiday party happening in Vic Hall this weekend and the guest list includes the following people: Raisa, Susan, Jia, Val, Brian, and Chandra. The following dictionary structure provides information about what food items each person is bringing, as well as the number of guests that will attend with the person. So, for example, Raisa is bringing pizza and cookies as her food items, and she is bringing 3 additional people with her.
guestlist = {"Raisa": ["pizza", "cookies", 3], "Susan": ["salad", 2], "Jia": ["ice cream", 0], "Val": ["cake", 2], "Brian": ["pasta", "cheese", "crackers", 2], "Chandra": ["burgers", "buns", 3]}
Write a program that uses this structure to carry out tasks outlined below. You may cut and paste the structure above into your program to use. The tasks below should be executed in order when your program is run.
First, print out a line for each guest that reads "<name> is bringing <food items>", where <name> and <food items> are replaced by the name of the guest and the food items that guest is
bringing. For example, the first line would be "Raisa is bringing pizza and cookies.", the second line would read "Susan is bringing salad." etc. Each sentence should be on a separate line, one line per guest and it should end with a period. The word "and" should be used between food items appropriately. Your code should work for any number of guests and any number of food items per guest. Note that you may assume that everyone is bringing at least one food item and that there is always a number of additional guests listed, even if this number is 0.
Next your program will print out the total number of guests that will attend the party. Remember to count each person on the guest list as well as the number of guests that they are bringing. Be
sure that your program is user friendly and that you indicate the meaning of the number that prints.
Professor Powley has made a list of people that she would like to be at the party (you may cut and paste this structure into your code):
powleyGuests = ["Isla", "Susan", "Ellen", "Jia", "Raisa", "Chandra", "Wendy"]
Your program should include a function that takes both the guestlist dictionary and the powelyGuests list as parameters and returns a list of the names of people that are in powleyGuests but that are not in the guestlist. Call this function and show the resulting list of names (in this case, the list should contain "Isla", "Ellen" and "Wendy"). It is ok to display the result as a list of names. WRITE A FULL DOCSTRING (function header) FOR THIS FUNCTION.
Next, for each of the guests who were in powleyGuests, but not in the original guestlist, add the name of the guest to the guestlist with a food item of "tbd" and 0 additional guests.
After adding these new guests, print the resulting list showing all guests on the guest list and the food items that each person is bringing. (Remember, you've already written code to do this – use it).
Write a function that takes a list containing the food items and the numbers of guests (eg. ["pizza", "cookies", 3]) and returns True if at least one of the following conditions is met:
1. the number of guests is greater than 0 and the first food item has more than 3 characters or starts with "p".
2. the number of guests is equal to 0 and one of the food items contains both the letter "s" and the letter "p".

If neither condition 1 or 2 are met, the function should return False. Your program should use this function and run it on each of the values found in the guest list (which now contains the Powley guests as well as the original guests). It is enough to just print True or False for each result, you do not have to add any more text.
Finally, have the user add names to powleyGuests. First ask them how many names they want to enter then prompt them for each of the names. You may assume that they enter an integer for the number of names that they want to enter. If they enter a name that already exists in the powleyGuests, ask them for another name until they enter a valid name that is not in this list. There must not be duplicate names in powleyGuests. Print the resulting powleyGuest list. It is fine to leave it as a list.